<!-- DO NOT MODIFY -->
<!-- This file was autogenerated by build-docs.ts -->
<!-- Edit the docstring in index.ts and regenerate -->
<!-- rather than editing this file directly. -->
# unified-latex-util-html-like

## What is this?

Functions to help with making html-like nodes in a `unified-latex` Abstract Syntax Tree (AST).

For example, `<p>foo</p>` can be stored as `\html-tag:p{foo}` in `unified-latex`. Because `-` and `:`
are special characters, they cannot appear in a macro name, so there is no risk of name conflicts.
These macros are created programmatically, so special characters can be inserted.

## When should I use this?

If you are converting LaTeX to HTML, these functions may be used as an intermediate format.

## Using with `unified-latex-to-hast`

`unified-latex-to-hast` first processes a document into html-like nodes and then
converts the resulting document to HAST/HTML. Any html-like macros that are created
will be transparently converted to HAST/HTML. For example, if you wanted to convert
all `\foo` macros into `<br />` tags, you could first preprocess your unified-latex AST
and replace all occurrences of `\foo` with `htmlLike({ tag: "br" })`. When the AST is converted
to HTML, the html-like macros will be rendered as `<br />` tags.

## Install

```bash
npm install @unified-latex/unified-latex-util-html-like
```

This package contains both esm and commonjs exports. To explicitly access the esm export,
import the `.js` file. To explicitly access the commonjs export, import the `.cjs` file.

# Functions

## `extractFromHtmlLike(macro)`

Extract the contents/attributes/tag from an html-like macro.

```typescript
function extractFromHtmlLike(macro: Ast.Macro): {
  tag: string;
  attributes: Record<string, string | number | boolean | object>;
  content: Ast.Node[];
};
```

**Parameters**

| Param | Type        |
| :---- | :---------- |
| macro | `Ast.Macro` |

`htmlLike({
    tag,
    content,
    attributes,
})`
---

Make an html-like node storing `content`. The node is a macro and `content` as well
as any attributes can be extracted or further processed. Collisions are avoided with existing
macros because all macros are prefixed with `html-tag:` or `html-attribute:`, which contain
special characters that normal macros cannot have.

```typescript
function htmlLike({
  tag,
  content,
  attributes,
}: {
  tag: string;
  content?: Ast.Node | Ast.Node[];
  attributes?: object;
}): Ast.Macro;
```

**Parameters**

| Param                                                     | Type                              |
| :-------------------------------------------------------- | :-------------------------------- |
| {&#xA;    tag,&#xA;    content,&#xA;    attributes,&#xA;} | <span color='gray'>Omitted</span> |

## `isHtmlLike(node)`

Determine whether the node is an html-like macro.

```typescript
function isHtmlLike(node: any): boolean;
```

**Parameters**

| Param | Type  |
| :---- | :---- |
| node  | `any` |

## `isHtmlLikeAttribute(node)`

Determine whether the node is an html-like macro for an attribute.

```typescript
function isHtmlLikeAttribute(node: any): boolean;
```

**Parameters**

| Param | Type  |
| :---- | :---- |
| node  | `any` |

## `isHtmlLikeTag(node)`

Determine whether the node is an html-like macro for a tag.

```typescript
function isHtmlLikeTag(node: any): boolean;
```

**Parameters**

| Param | Type  |
| :---- | :---- |
| node  | `any` |
